Dre: Christmas... the most
wonderful time of the year.
A time for tree trimming,
roaring fires, Christmas Carols,
but most important, a time
to be with the ones you love.
But some would argue
it's become
overly commercialized,
that it's all about stuff.
To these people, I would say...
"duh!"
♪♪
[ Indistinct shouting ]
Let go of me! Ow!
In fact, no one loves stuff
more than me...
Oh, here we go.
Here we go.
Except for these four.
[ Indistinct shouting ]
In my house,
Christmas morning has become
like a competitive
eating contest.
Man: It is running
neck and neck.
Man ♪2: Unbelievable...
11 hot dogs after just a minute.
♪♪
Give me something else to open!
I need it now!
Both: Stockings!
Go!
♪♪
Which is why it didn't come
as a total surprise
to hear pop say...
Whoa. Ah.
As usual, dummy,
you've overdone it...
Took something beautiful
and turned it into crap.
I'm taking over Christmas.
Santa's got
a brand-new bag.
Son, your black ass
has completely bought into
this white-Christmas
nonsense.
Mm-hmm.
Buy them damn kids
anything they ask for.
Hell, you even buy 'em things
they don't ask for!
It's too much, son.
Oh, so, they should
just be disappointed
and wake up to nothing...
Like I did.
Unh-unh-unh!
There was always something
for you under the tree.
It's heavy!
It's pickles.
Boy, you know you love pickles!
Not for Christmas, I don't!
Well, you ate 'em
like you loved 'em.
- You do love pickles, babe.
- Bow!
Y'all talking about
how my baby love pickles?
Mama, we are not...
Mm-hmm.
Can we stop talking about
pickles, please?!
Fine! You the one
that loved 'em so much.
The point is,
you've rotted your children
from the inside out with
all the stuff you've given 'em.
You've lost
the true meaning of Christmas.
Which is Jesus!
He is the reason for the season.
Well, I was going to say,
listening to Donny Hathaway
and sipping on cutty sark
till you're out of cutty sark.
Either way, your generation
has ruined it
with too... Much... Stuff.
Yeah,
too... Much... Stuff.
Oh, so, it's our fault?
Oh, hey, mama, uh,
what did the three wise men
bring baby Jesus in his manger?
Hmm?
Oh, gold, frankincense [Murmurs]
Speak up, mama,
'cause it sounded like
you said stuff,
which I never got.
Wait a minute.
H-h-hold on.
Did you rise from the dead
and provide man with salvation?
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Well, until you do that,
you thank god for those pickles.
Amen.
You know, maybe Ruby and pops
are right, though.
What?
When I was growing up,
we used to have to
make our own gifts.
Ooh, that sounds terrible.
Yeah, stay in your Lane,
rainbow.
No, I'm agreeing with you.
Okay, all I'm saying
is that we could live
with a little less stuff
in our lives.
See that? Even your own wife
agrees with me.
Okay.
So, you're saying
I should return
that Cartier juste un clou
bracelet that I bought you.
The kids, Dre.
The kids can live on less.
We're adults.
Oh, just for the babies.
Now, did you say "bracelet"
or "bracelets"?
'Cause, you know,
the whole stacking thing
is trending right now.
So it's best if you have
two or like three.
Four really sells it.
All I know is that I love
the look on my kids' faces
when I give them
the perfect gift.
Junior! Come here, junior.
Watch this.
Will you tell pops how much
you love the skateboard
I got you last Christmas.
Oh, I traded that for a pizza.
Get out.
Oh, yeah, I bet his little face
just lit up
when he ate that pizza.
Speaking of gifts, we saw
the presents around the tree.
It felt light.
Real light,
like practice-run light.
It's Christmas.
We got to play to win!
Doing a bang-up job
there, son.
As much as I hate to admit it,
pops was right.
My kids were monsters,
who were about to get
a lot less stuff.
So, these gifts
that you were going to get
are going in my trunk.
And from now on,
you get one gift.
Dear god!
Just kill me!
Aw!
You broke my heart.
Wait. One gift
for all of us to share?
Now, that is
an interesting idea.
Both: Shut up!
What is wrong with you?!
I'm just asking for clarity.
No, you each get one gift.
And I'm suggesting
something useful,
like cold cuts, can of tuna,
honey-baked ham.
My favorite. No, no.
What's going on?
There's no sense in arguing.
It's one gift
and my traditional
Christmas Eve dinner.
This is your new reality.
And in the spirit
of taking less,
we are all gonna
start volunteering more.
Huh?
We're not doing that.
There you go again...
Swerving out of your Lane.
Dre, come on.
I backed up your one-gift idea.
Yeah, because my idea
was a good one.
Bow, come to me
with these half-baked ideas
so I don't have to shoot you
down in front of the children.
But you...
They lose respect for you.
He's not wrong.
Well, I'm gonna volunteer
because it's nice.
Whatever.
One gift.
That idea is real.
Can our stockings be
our one gift?
Both: Shut up!
What is wrong with you?
What do you guys have
against clarity?!
♪♪
One gift?!
This is an outrage!
I think
I'll ask for a yo-yo.
Is this a joke to you?
Think bigger!
But not too big.
Dad said no to a Tesla.
Okay, so, we're looking
at something
between yo-yo and Tesla.
So, that's, like, a passat?
Ugh.
Uh, you guys are playing this
all wrong.
If we're extra good,
they'll cave.
They're cavers.
We just have to play
to our strengths.
Zoey, Jack, you'll be kind.
I'll be helpful.
And, junior...
You'll disappear.
Huh?
Uh, trust me on this.
Absence makes
the heart grow fonder.
She's right.
Less of you is more.
I-I'm not sure
about this.
Well, you better get sure
because you're this close
to waking up
to a stocking
full of Turkey pastrami.
Say no more.
I bid you adieu.
Mm.
That was a great call.
Felt right.
So, I went to work knowing
I was doing the right thing
for my kids,
but my co-workers didn't like
the one-gift idea.
You cheap bastard.
No, no, no.
It's because Christmas
is about more than stuff.
Wait, what?
Why would you...
Oh, it's a fear campaign.
Imagine a world not about stuff.
You're creating a panic and
offering a solution... genius!
What?
It's kind of like
when the saline companies and I
created the flu vaccine
giving people the flu
in order to combat the flu...
Hilarious!
And when you lost that account
and created
the "vaccines cause autism"
campaign... very strong!
Aww, stop it.
Yes.
Oh, god.
Stuff makes the world go 'round,
Dre, especially our world.
We're ad men.
- Mm.
- And women.
- Amen, sister.
Do I seem like someone you
should be that comfortable with?
Okay, g-guys, look, look, I'm
trying to start a new tradition.
Ah, traditions.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, Phillip took
all of ours in the divorce.
Holidays are
the hardest times... that...
- [ Murmurs ]
- Gut-wrenching loneliness...
Sadness...
Settling like fresh fallen snow.
No snow plow coming for me.
- [ Clears throat ]
- Just cold...
Frozen.
Winter's a-coming!
Okay, o-okay,
d-Daphne, Daphne.
Okay, look, would you like
to come have dinner with us?
What? I don't need
your damn pity invite.
And no matter what,
I know my Christmas
is gonna be better than Lucy's.
W-what,
because I'm Jewish?
No, because you're boring.
I didn't know you were Jewish.
Ha!
You are growing on me.
♪♪
[ Footsteps approaching ]
Ruby: So!
Lady Diana,
how's that volunteering going?
Just because
I'm not volunteering
every second of the day doesn't
mean I'm not volunteering.
[ Laughs ]
Did you even sign up?
Yes.
Did you pass
the background check?
Yes, of course.
They don't run one!
Charlatan.
I...
Eh!
Eh-eh.
This whole thing started
because pops convinced
bow and me
we needed to teach
our bratty kids a lesson,
but looking around,
we didn't see any bratty kids.
♪ Here we are,
arms around each other ♪
♪ The quiet scene ♪
boop!
♪ Pretty lights all over ♪
♪ Snow is falling,
and everyone is here tonight ♪
♪ Iaaa ♪
♪ It's a merry Christmas ♪
♪ All the bells are ringing
♪ hey, babe? Yeah.
Have you seen the adorableness
of our children?
Jack has frosting on his nose.
Shut up.
[ Laughs ]
My god.
Where's junior?
I haven't seen him in a while.
Me either.
Gosh...
I don't remember
the last time I saw him.
It feels like forever.
Kind of miss the little fella.
I know, right?
Mm.
Oh, god, his smile
can really light up a room.
Aww.
It's like bing!
Little curly-head sucker.
Let's go.
♪♪
And then carry over
the two, and...
Oh. Hey.
Hello, mama, papa.
Oh, my god.
You... you guys are so...
Maybe we should reconsider.
Nope!
Don't fall for it.
They're trying to trick you
into forgetting
what monsters they are.
Old-school Christmas...
One gift.
♪♪
You can come out now.
Any chance
at a real Christmas is over.
Might as well make our lists...
Our sad, one-gift lists.
I'm not coming out.
Never say die!
♪♪
Ugh.
Ugh!
Okay.
Hey, bow, what are you doing?
It's 5:30.
We haven't even had dinner yet.
Yes, I know,
but I need to go to sleep
so that I can wake up
at 3:00 A.M.
To get to the homeless shelter.
[ Sighs ]
Doesn't matter anyway.
I'm not gonna be able to sleep
'cause all I'm thinking about is
this whole one-gift thing.
Uh...
[ Paper rustles ]
Have you seen
their Christmas lists?
"Wizard cape.
Would prefer standard,
but waist-length is okay."
Oh, my god.
This is so sad.
I know.
Jack wants "kold kuts".
[ Sighing ] I know.
With two k's!
Uh, yeah.
Dre, do you think
we were too harsh
with the kids with the presents?
[ Sighs ] Maybe.
Mm.
Look, I don't want my kids
waking up on Christmas
disappointed like I did.
Every year, I told pops I wanted
Clay-colored riedell skates,
and every year,
he gave me food from the fridge.
Mm-hmm. I had to borrow my
cousin's plastic skates.
I couldn't go two feet
without falling.
I was high-stepping
like a Clydesdale.
No one wanted me
on their skate crew.
My poor,
little crewless Clydesdale.
[ Sighs ] Dre?
Hmm?
Do you think maybe...
Maybe we could get the kids
just, like, a few more gifts...
Not as many
as we were gonna get 'em,
but just, like,
you know, more than one.
And maybe some extra for junior.
He was my favorite.
Uh, what happened
to "never say die!"?
I got bit by a relentless,
orange spider.
I may actually die.
Hey, kids, listen up.
[ Gasps ] Junior!
Oh, my goodness.
Where have you been?!
Sweetheart, did you get taller?!
Son, come here, come here!
Oh, my god.
I missed you, little buddy!
How are you?!
Not so good.
I got bit by a poisonous...
Okay, not now. Not now.
I have something important
to say.
Okay.
Kids...
We're bringing Christmas back.
[ All cheering ]
- Ah, shh, shh!
- Shhhh!
Secretly.
Nobody tell pops.
Okay.
[ Chuckles ]
Please help me.
So cold.
Insides turning to jelly!
Oh!
I was having lunch
with my colleagues the next day
when bow made
an unexpected appearance.
- Oh, hey, babe.
- Hi.
- Everything okay?
- Well...
You know, w-what are you doing
here looking like this?
[ Chuckles ]
This is my job.
Rainbow!
Wow!
Why don't you come on in?
Have a seat.
Yeah, come and sit.
This is, uh, Daphne, and this
is, um [Fingers snaps]
Doesn't matter.
Are you okay?
Because you don't...
Uh, how do I say this?...
Uh, look okay.
Oh. No, no, she's fine.
She's fine.
She just volunteered today
at the homeless shelter.
Why?
Oh, she was obviously there
scouting out organs.
N-no.
Because volunteering is nice.
No, that makes no sense.
Babe...
Why are you here?
'Cause I thought
I could come here
and we could
have lunch together.
Oh, my god, of course!
You're hungry.
Lucy [Fingers snap]
Give her your lunch.
Oh. Oh, my god!
I do look awful!
God, I was just trying to do
something nice for Christmas.
Christmas doesn't always
work out the way you want.
Oh, my god.
If I had my way,
Phillip and I
would be popping "x"
and rolling around
in cranberry sauce
like the old days.
Pre-holiday divorce...
That's a rookie mistake.
Early October
is when you want to file,
especially in New Hampshire.
The foliage
around the Concord courthouse
is absolutely fabulous.
I'll keep that in mind
as I'm trying to eat
a 25-pound Turkey by myself.
Wait, by yourself?
You can't be by yourself
on Christmas.
Why don't... why don't you
come over to our house?
Babe, she's not interested.
I most certainly am.
Thank you, Dre's wife.
Nobody here had the decency.
N-n-now, h-hold up.
Wait a minute.
Daphne, I invited you Tuesday.
Does lying
make you feel like a man, Dre?
I...
So, to get to the fun
of our secret Christmas Eve,
all we had to do
was endure pops'
old-school
Christmas Eve dinner.
All right, everybody, dig in.
This is a Christmas Eve dinner
the way god intended it...
Fresh out the box.
Are we sure
this is what god intended?
Baby girl, everything tastes
better straight out the box.
Now, who wants a leg and a wing?
Is it organic?
Why aren't we having
regular Christmas Eve dinner?
Boy, if you don't hush up
and eat your food...
Okay, everybody, just eat up.
There's Turkey in the hamper.
No, no, no, baby, he's right.
Why are we eating
cold chicken out of a box?
[ Muffled ] Excuse me?
I want to know!
Why are you making us do this?
I'm not making you do this.
We get to do this!
I'm going to go order Sushi.
Sit down, little girl.
This is Christmas Eve dinner,
and you are going to
appreciate it.
You see this mess here?
This is "stuff" talk.
There's stuffing?
How does my kids wanting to have
a decent dinner at Christmas
have anything to do
with me buying them
too much stuff?
This is what you had.
You turned out all right.
I turned out all right
in spite of all of this!
Sweetie, just ignore him.
Seriously,
we have the secret Christmas.
No! You know what?
We tried Christmas your way,
and it sucks!
Oh, you're too good now?
Oh. You got a little
money in your pocket,
and now my traditional
Christmas Eve dinner
isn't good enough for you.
Well, fine.
Go have your Sushi.
Thank you.
Yellowfin tuna?
You know it.
Dre:
It's not about Sushi, pops.
It's about us
doing things our way,
so we're gonna go upstairs,
and we're gonna open up
all the presents that I bought
because I'm proud of the way
that we do Christmas...
Secretly, in the closet!
Everybody, up!
Let's go open some stuff!
[ Claps ]
Come on! Let's get our stuff on!
Okay, Christmas!
Whoa, babe.
If you're upset,
we don't have to do this now.
Oh, no, no, no, no. We can
wait until Christmas morning.
We're gonna do this right now.
Okay, I...
We are going to celebrate
Christmas, damn it, okay?!
- Wow.
- Here's a gift.
Here's a gift. Here's a gift.
There's your gift!
- Okay.
- Stuff!
Now, get to it!
A merry...
Christmas.
Mm-hmm.
Yes!
Uh... oh.
A 6.
What's wrong?
Nothing. [ Sighs ]
Except I kind of asked
for a 6s, but it's cool.
I mean,
how are you supposed to know?
Except for the part where
I wrote it down for you, but...
I can't believe this!
[ Sighs ] And what
is wrong with you?!
I disappeared myself
for a gift card to j.Crew?!
You took money I could use
every place
and turned it into money
I could use one place.
So... Jack has more presents
than I do?!
Okay.
Shots fired.
You're jealous of a goldfish?
A daily chore
that ends in heartbreak?!
What is happening?!
We're getting stuff
that we don't like.
Are you not picking up on that?
You guys!
I stood up for you guys!
I went against my father
and every tradition
that I had growing up!
For what?! For this?!
Okay.
So...
Gift receipts?
No, Diane.
All right.
I did it.
I ruined the old-school
Christmas and secret Christmas.
Can't wait to see
what you do to new year's.
You know, I tried to blame you,
I tried to blame the kids,
but all this falls on me.
Well...
Nobody's disagreeing with you.
You know, a-as fathers...
We try to give our kids
more than we had.
Sometimes that just
isn't the best thing.
♪♪
So, Christmas morning
was bright and sunny outside,
but not inside.
[ Sighs ] Do you think
we'll still get stockings?
What is wrong with you?
For some weird reason,
dad's boss is here.
Did she bring presents?
She did not.
Well, hi! Hello!
Oh, my goodness.
So nice you came!
[ Chuckles nervously ]
Dre will be right back,
but, please, uh, join our, um,
our chr... our Christmas.
Wow, uh,
thank you for inviting me
to this wonderfully festive
and heartwarming environment.
D-do the kids
not have presents?
Our dad threw them away
before we woke up.
[ Laughing nervously ]
Ha! That sounds so much worse
than it is.
Well, here's what happened.
So, Dre had a screaming match
with his dad
over the fried
Christmas chicken,
and then we went upstairs
to have our secret Christmas
in the closet
and our hamper Turkey,
and Dre had already
thrown his dirty underwear
[chuckles] On top
of the Turkey, so...
[ Inhales deeply ]
And then the goldfish died.
She did?!
Ooh. A-anyway, um, we're all
just trying to, you know,
rally and have a nice...
Normal Christmas.
♪ Happy birthday ♪
♪ Black Jesus ♪
Black Jesus?
♪ Happy birthday ♪
♪ Black Jesus ♪ yes, she...
Calls him that.
[ Sighs ] ♪ happy birthday,
dear redeemer king ♪
♪ Happy birthday
to you ♪
[ Blows ]
You know,
I'm just gonna go grab Chinese
with the sad Jewish
girl from work. Oh.
♪ For he's a jolly good savior ♪
♪ For he's a jolly good savior ♪ please,
uh, Dre will be so sad he missed you.
♪ For he's a jolly good savior ♪
I'll walk... why are you running?
♪ Who nobody can renounce ♪
Come on!
♪ For he's... ♪
All right, pops, what's up?
I hate church's chicken.
What?
Don't get me wrong.
It's chicken.
It's fried in delicious batter,
but I hate it.
Then why did you talk it up
every year
and make it
our Christmas tradition?
Because it was the best
I could do,
and I was so embarrassed,
I tried to sell it
as the best that ever was.
[ Sighs ]
Pops, you just could've said so.
And what's that conversation
look like?
"Listen, son,
I work a minimum-wage job,"
and I can barely
keep the lights on.
"So, here are some pickles.
Merry Christmas."
Well, maybe not exactly
in those words.
I-I see what you're trying
to do for your kids,
and I respect it.
I just think
you're trying to do too much.
Now, maybe I went
a little overboard
with the old-school Christmas...
Mm-hmm.
But your new-school Christmas
ain't exactly working, either.
[ Chuckles ]
Well, there's always Kwanzaa.
[ Scoffs ]
Boy, you ain't got no sense.
[ Laughs ]
But look here.
You're a decent dad.
♪ So, this is Christmas ♪
Merry Christmas.
♪ And what have you done? ♪ but
I didn't get you anything.
Yes, you did.
♪ Another year older ♪
You know, this...
This feels pickle-heavy.
Boy, if you don't open that gift...
[ Laughs ]
♪ And a new one just begun ♪
I'm gonna open your head.
♪ And so, this is Christmas ♪
huh?
♪ I hope you have fun ♪
my skates?!
And this here is your crew.
♪ The near and the dear ones ♪
♪ The old and the young ♪
Thanks, pops.
♪ A very merry Christmas ♪ dad,
we're sorry we were monsters.
You make it feel like Christmas
every day...
♪ And a happy new year ♪ ...And we're
sorry that we don't show you that.
I'm also just grateful
to be alive.
♪ Let's hope it's a good one ♪
I love my goldfish, daddy.
God rest her soul.
Diane: Look, I'm not saying
you should give me less, but...
♪ Without any fear ♪ ...I'll try
to start appreciating it more.
♪ So this is Christmas ♪
try... no promises.
Well, it's no
"god bless us, everyone"...
♪ And what have we done? ♪
But I'll take it.
[ Chuckles ]
Come on, give me some love.
Give me some love.
♪ Another year over ♪
Merry Christmas.
♪ And a new one just begun ♪
[ Laughter ]
All right, I think I'm getting
the hang of this.
[ All shout ]
Whoo! It's all right.
Why would you ask
for a pair of skates
if you never learned
how to skate?!
[ All shouting ]
Okay, bow, can you help me?!
Listen to 'em jingle.
[ Bracelets jingling ]
Jangle, jingle!
Baby Jesus has leftovers!
Who wants cake?!
Me! Me!
[ Pants tearing ]
Aah! Aah!
Okay, save me some cake!
Ow! Ooh!